We look forward to Brother Anthony Morris' thoughts presented in his talk entitled We Have Worked To Do.
It was a great pleasure to hear all of the excitement when the Ramapo project was announced to all of you here.
And I'm sure that was true for the other thousands that are tied in.
And then you saw with these videos all the construction projects going on all over all over the year.
So it's quite interesting you think about it now from an imperfect human perspective, frankly not thinking spiritually.
You say, well, we just dedicated the warwick property along with Wallkill recently.
Now here we go down the road.
Well, the preaching work obviously is premier.
And that's what this is really about.
The preaching work to support the preaching work and to continue to feed Jehovah's precious sheep the way he wants them fed.
It involves all this construction.
So God wants us to have it clear.
We want you to spread this.
And of course, it'll come up in January.
Keep in mind we have work to do.
Period.
So get over it.
You know, don't get me going on vacation.
I'll just tell you and I know my friends on the governing body.
And not that you need your time.
I'm not trying to put you on a guilt trip, but it's we got a whole lot of these.
Because how do you with the work is going on?
You try to rest up when you can and Jehovah wants us to, but we have so much work to do.
And we thank God for it.
So just to give us a little scriptural reminder of the proper attitude about work.
Find John chapter five.
And these are very familiar verses to all of you.
Particularly the audience here at Newburg, all these decades of faithful service.
We treasure your service.
And of course, Jehovah certainly does.
And you've worked hard for decades.
A lot of you are talking to earlier decades in the traveling work.
So many wonderful hardworking brothers and sisters.
Jesus and John chapter five facing these judgmental religious leaders,
persecuting them over, curing on the Sabbath.
Well, what we're after here is something he reveals to us in verse 17.
When he's answering them,
my father has kept working until now.
And I keep working.
So the hardest worker in the universe is Jehovah God and Christ Jesus is right there.
With them, Jehovah is a worker.
His people have to be workers.
That's what he expects.
And it's such a pleasure to serve the true God and work.
And another familiar verse where his Corinthians chapter 15,
the proper spirit when it comes to this matter of being workers of all the work we have to do.
And Jehovah's seen to it that we have all this work.
Very familiar, verse 58 of 1 Corinthians 15.
Therefore, my beloved brothers,
be steadfast, immovable.
Notice always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord,
knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.
There's plenty of work in the work of the Lord.
And then when we're doing the work,
and this is crucial as we engage in it,
whether it's the preaching work or other work assignments,
if you're in a Bethel assignment or a construction assignment,
there's a proper spirit.
And find here Romans chapter 12.
And this we see in God's people.
And we want to individually apply the counsel,
make sure we keep this spirit or talk to God about it,
if it's lacking at the moment.
Romans chapter 12.
And here's what Christians are all about when it comes to work for Jehovah.
Verse 11, be industrious.
Not lazy.
Jehovah does not approve of lazy.
He a glow with the spirit.
See, he's just absorbed with it.
There's this zeal, just alive with it as we slave for Jehovah.
So he appreciates an industrious, hard working spirit,
and that's what he wants from his people.
Now, with all of the announcements and the videos
with construction going on,
I just thought I'd share this with you.
It's a very special item of mine,
and it comes up recently.
You can see here, best you can, the camera can pick it up.
And up here it says, building permit.
And it's a special memory for me personally,
because as we had in some of the videos,
when we were involved with the construction,
or before construction started with the Warwick project,
we'd be at Tixedo, and a lot of work going on in preparatory
looking for that day when they could get started.
So the governing body would do their best to get up
and be encouraging, always wearing high viz outfits,
and then give a spiritual talk.
I think it's the only time I've given a talking high viz.
And so this particular day was special,
because things were moving along with the community they liked us.
But I noticed Zenny in the one video,
he mentioned Shovel to the ground,
and that's okay, we're different.
I'm calling it Shovel in the ground.
Zenny's not from America, so.
It means the same thing, Zenny, so forgive me.
You know, appreciate all your hard work.
But any that have been involved with construction,
and you get a lot of folks,
former regional building committee,
you know, all the hard work and construction,
and it's always been special to work on these spiritual projects.
Well, this particular day,
and there were a lot of things going on.
So I'm up there, it's July 26th,
and that date is up here in the corner.
It's a Friday, and it's the year 2013, quite a while ago.
So I have a talk to give to them at 1.30 after visiting some two hours before.
So it must have been around 11.30,
they got the building permit.
So the construction project committee,
and how much we love those men and their wives,
they're there, they thought, well,
would you mind making this announcement?
And I thought, boy, that timing worked out good.
That's quite an honor, no.
Construction, you know, in the shovel,
in the ground announcement.
So give those spiritual sides.
You know, little glories are right for a human sometimes, you know.
So it was very exciting, and then,
the memory is clear, and those that were there,
because the operation of Holy Spirit
and the brothers being a glow with the spirit, industrious,
when they made the announcement,
I'm telling you, and those that were there,
the joy, the thunderous applause,
and it wasn't anything to do with me,
it was they got the shovel in the ground,
and the excitement,
so I was able to easily walk out of there,
and they're all busy thrilled over shoveling the ground approval.
Now, days coming, God willing,
for the Ramapo project,
to have shoveling the ground,
you heard when they hope that happens,
but it's just that beautiful spirit glorifies Jehovah
when they work so hard.
And so we got to keep that spirit,
and some of them say,
well, and it's happened on occasion,
not a lot of God's spiritual-minded folks,
but you believe the ends coming?
So what are you doing all this for?
If the ends are really close,
what are you doing?
Well, the ends are going to come
when Jehovah's satisfied with the preaching,
but it also a reminder here,
this is always something you can forget.
I notice further,
Butler touched on it in his opening prayer,
which, of course, we don't record the prayers
for presentation January, but Bob touched on it.
And Jehovah gives us enough to keep us focused on,
and you just stay busy and do my will.
However, this is quite fascinating.
Chapter seven verses one through three.
After this, I saw four angels standing on the four corners
of the earth holding tight the four winds of the earth
so that no wind could blow on the earth
around the sea or on any tree.
And I saw another angel ascending from the sunrise
having a seal of the living God,
and he called with a loud voice to the four angels,
to whom was granted,
to harm the earth and the sea saying,
and it's loud,
do not harm the earth or the sea
or the trees until,
after we have sealed,
the slaves of our God in their foreheads.
Oh.
Now, some individual,
anointed, they had to have a final seal
before they died,
and we've had number of died during the last days,
but this is talking about
right before Jehovah's d'Arts,
or has it in the hearts of the governments
to destroy Babylon,
that all of those that are left
down near at the Remnant,
genuine, anointed disciples of Christ,
they get the final seal.
And this is what's going to take place.
And then after that,
a great tribulation breaks out.
And you keep an eye on the news to some degree,
if you can stomach it,
to at least know what's happening,
the end is definitely close.
There's just no denying it.
We eagerly look forward to taking place
the great tribulation.
It's close.
However, as we eagerly await,
we want to have Jehovah's mind on the matter
and wait patiently.
And I think it was all of those here,
because here at least the new bird,
so many years in the truth,
especially corporate members
and their mates, if they're married,
this watchtower we want to share with you
from 1976, profound statements.
Just to this day, they ring true
about this matter of the end.
It shows you where we are,
in the stream of time,
and Jehovah's spirit was on him,
not inspired, but he captured it
with them, helping them,
and it was just ringing,
to this day.
Now notice what that 76th November 15th watchtower
said, pages 688, 689.
And in the 17th paragraph,
notice quoting it,
the end does not come just
because we might think it is the due date,
or because we feel that our territory has been well-worked.
It comes when Jehovah has carried
through the great work of kingdom preaching
to the extent he wants.
And then he will bring the great tribulation.
Now listen, back 1976,
until that time there is work to do.
And we as Jehovah's Witnesses
are the ones assigned to do it.
The arrival of the great tribulation
should find the preaching work
at the height of its forward movement,
at the very peak of its momentum
throughout the earth.
The arrival of the Lord Jesus
to execute judgment will come
as a complete surprise
even to Jehovah's people.
For it will no doubt
find them at their busiest time of activity.
Think about it.
You've been busier since you've been in the truth
than recently.
It's all where the busiest we've been.
Hands down.
So it's amazing how the slave captured
that right attitude in 1976.
Of course, some in the truth,
there are at least certain parts of the earth.
They're thinking the end is coming in 75.
And look at all the growths in the 70s.
You have about two million back in the 70s
that were witnesses of the true God.
Now we're approaching nine million.
So in conclusion, there's closing thoughts.
And this is priceless from that same watchtower.
Jehovah's Advancing Theocratic Society
will be a going concern,
a go forward organization
right down to and through the great tribulation.
So I've told brothers for a long time
the recent changes from RBC to work.
This is all new world construction going on here.
You're taking this over?
After I'm again, you're going to just keep on working.
And others will be trained.
And then the further the worship of God,
the watchtower said is with spirit and truth
is positive, enthusiastic,
spirited and progressive.
And then this is profound,
more and more sections of the earth and western lands
in the orient and elsewhere
are now receiving a thorough witness.
And who knows how much farther
the glorious good news will be sounded before the end?
Well, God knows.
And look at the sound of the good news being
all over the earth, most distant parts of the earth.
So may all of us beg Jehovah
to continue to empower us,
to keep worshiping him with spirit and truth,
enthusiasm and zeal
because we have work to do.
Thank you, Brother Morris.
In the words of 1 Chronicles 28,
10, we will be courageous and go to work.
At this time we ask the question,
what do we have to fear?
Brother Mark Sandison will address that question now for us.
At Revelation chapter 12 and verse 17,
the Bible makes clear that all of God's people,
every one of you here in this room
and every servant of God around this earth
who support Jehovah's anointed ones,
are in a war.
Now read this thought with me.
Revelation chapter 12 and verse 17.
It says,
So the dragon became enraged at the woman
and went off to wage war
with the remaining ones of her offspring
who observed the commandments of God
and have the work of bearing witness concerning Jesus.
Well, what does it mean?
As our dear brother Morris would say,
cheer up, things are only going to get worse.
Well, if we are in this spiritual war,
what do we expect?
With every war comes intense,
intense hatred.
Not surprisingly, Jesus made it clear
that his servants would not just be disliked,
but what did Jesus say?
Let's read it together, Matthew chapter 24 and verse 9.
Matthew chapter 24, verse 9.
He said,
Then people will hand you over to tribulation
and will kill you
and you will be hated by all the nations
on account of my name.
So brothers, what do we expect?
We expect the hatred of all.
Jesus said, all the nations.
Not just Eritrea,
not just Russia,
all the nations.
But there is something else that we also must expect in a war.
There is a very famous quote that says,
in war, the first casualty is truth.
And that is exactly what Jesus warned
would happen to God's people.
Read it, Matthew chapter 5,
Matthew chapter 5 and verse 11.
He said, happy are you when people reproach you
and persecute you and then notice this.
And lyingly say every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake.
Brothers, what's the point?
We are in a war.
And we expect to be hated by all the nations.
And we expect that people will say every sort
of wicked thing against us.
Well, with that in mind,
it's good for us to ask this question.
What do we have to fear?
Well-known statesman Franklin Roosevelt said,
the only thing that we have to fear is fear itself.
Well, he's not completely correct.
But there's certainly a note of truth in what he said.
You see, fear is a powerful weapon
in the hand of our great adversary, Satan the devil.
He will use that weapon against us
and what is the danger?
You see, brothers, when we are afraid or we are terrified,
we can then be controlled by our enemies.
The Apostle Paul made this very clear in what he said here
in Hebrews the second chapter.
We read this with me, please.
Let's look at Hebrews chapter 2.
Let's look at verse 14.
He says, therefore, since the young children are shares
of blood and flesh,
he also similarly shared in the same things.
So that through his death, now notice this,
through his death, he might bring to nothing
the one having the means to cause death.
That is the devil.
And that he might do what?
That he might set free all those
who were held in slavery all their lives
by their fear of death.
You see, the Apostle Paul praised Jehovah
for the gift of Christ Jesus and why?
Because he knew that all of those who would put faith
in the ransom sacrifice of Christ Jesus
would be set free.
But set free from what?
Paul says, from the slavery to the fear of death.
Now, why is that significant?
You see people who are in fear of death
are constantly afraid.
And as a result, they can be manipulated and controlled.
Now, take, for example, the Nuremberg trials
that occurred at the end of the Second World War.
Various Nazis who had committed horrible, terrible atrocities
were brought to justice.
And when these individuals, both men and women,
asked the simple question, how could you do these terrible things?
What did they say?
We had no choice.
If we didn't obey, they would put us to death.
Those people could be manipulated.
They could be controlled.
They could even get them to do the most wicked things
because they were afraid.
When we have complete confidence
in our amazing God, Jehovah,
when we have put our full confidence
in the ransom sacrifice of His Son, Jesus Christ,
we can do what the Apostle Paul says here in Philippians 1.
Will you read it?
With me, Philippians 1 and verse 28.
Paul says,
And in no way, being frightened by your opponents,
this very thing is a proof of destruction for them,
but of salvation for you.
And this is from God.
You see, brothers, that confidence in Jehovah
and in the ransom sacrifice of Christ can set us free
so that we are not afraid of our opponents.
But another thing that can help us to overcome the fear
of persecution is realizing something very important.
And that is that Jehovah will allow our enemies
to only go so far.
Now, you remember the text in 1 Corinthians chapter 10.
Now, let's read this.
Verse chapter 10 and verse 13.
The Apostle Paul says,
No temptation has come upon you except what is common demand.
But God is faithful.
And he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.
But along with the temptation,
he will also make the way out,
so that you may be able to endure it.
See, that's a promise from our God, Jehovah.
He will only allow our enemies to go so far.
In a well-known illustration from a book
that was written in the 1600s,
it shows a path that leads off to the final goal.
And on either side of the path, there are lions.
The caption to the illustration says,
The lions were chained,
but he didn't see the chains.
Now, what's the point?
You see, we may encounter lions along our path
on our journey to the new world.
But what do we need to remember?
Every one of those lions is chained.
And so we must look not at the lions, brothers,
but the chains.
And as we concentrate on the fact that Jehovah loves us,
that he loves his people,
and that he will never allow Satan or his agents
to do anything that will permanently harm us,
our fear of our persecutors begins to dwindle away.
When you see the lion, remember,
don't stare at the lion, stare at the chain.
So then, brothers, I come back to the question.
What then do we have to fear?
Well, the Bible tells us it's here in Psalm 111.
Psalm 111 and verse 10.
It says, The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of wisdom.
All those observing his orders show good insight.
His praise endures forever.
Well, that's what we do have to fear.
We have to have a wholesome fear of our wonderful God, Jehovah.
That wholesome fear of displeasing the Almighty God of the universe
is our compass.
It shows us the way.
It tells us what we need to do.
No matter how much opposition may come upon us.
No matter what form that opposition may take,
if we are God-fearing men and women,
we will know exactly what we need to do.
Do you agree?
Now, brothers, this is not theory.
Our brothers and sisters around the world
are living examples of the truths that we have just discussed.
Please watch the following video that contains heartfelt comments
from persecuted brothers and sisters in Russia
and see why we have no reason to fear persecution.
I was horrified when several masked officers broke down
two doors and burst into the home where the meeting was being held.
Everything happened at once.
How it sounds, noise, the order, everyone sit on the floor.
I was overcome with fear when they put me in handcuffs,
blessed me in the police fan and took me to jail.
I was afraid because I didn't know how long I would be there
and what was awaiting me.
When I was being interrogated,
I was afraid that I might be unfaithful to Jehovah
and let my brothers down.
After being detained, I was mostly afraid about what I would face in prison,
whom I would encounter, how to act, how others would treat me, the unknown.
When one of the officers began to describe how bad life is behind bars,
I imagined that behind the officer stood an angel
just like the one who supported Daniel in the illustration.
This helped me to calm down, not panic or be afraid.
That's how Jehovah supported me.
At the first court of hearings, when I was brought out,
the broadest feelings impelled them to show supports on how
and they began implawning.
How that encouraged me that they were with me.
It was kind of so safe.
Fervent and sincere prayers to Jehovah
helped me to cope with these fears.
Isaiah 30-15 gave me much support.
I realized that tranquility and trust in Jehovah
are now the most important things,
understanding this made things much easier for me.
We took the elevator down to the first floor,
the doors open, and there stood a large crowd of our brothers and sisters,
and they all began clapping.
When I saw that, my emotions just welled up
and I got a lump in my throat.
I felt as if I had wings.
I felt the great cloud of witnesses.
I prayed to Jehovah for calmness, courage and wisdom,
and that he helped me not to bring reproach on his holy name.
Almost immediately, the peace of God came over me,
and I was calm.
The unpleasant sensations did not go away,
but I was no longer afraid.
While overcoming our fear, my wife and I
tried to go out and service every day.
When you don't concentrate on yourself
but focus on helping others, fear disappears.
Something that helped me to cope with my fears is hope.
Looking at the situation through Jehovah's eyes,
seeing what will happen next.
That this is not the end of the situation,
but only a difficult phase through which you can pass.
I was helped to cope with my fear by the words of the song.
Take one day at a time.
Leave tomorrow until tomorrow.
Peace is what I find.
I understood that it was important to solve problems
as they came up and not to be troubled by what might never happen.
Fear is interesting.
That is, in principle, fear can be inside a person
and if someone is afraid, that is not shameful.
But the question is, can you overcome this fear?
Can you get the fear under your control?
Can you overcome the surge of negativity?
And when my heart persuaded me to get scared,
then I started to pray.
I prayed to Jehovah to give me courage
and not be afraid of anyone or anything.
I still say to myself,
Felix, do not fear anybody or anything except Jehovah.
Brothers and sisters, we know
that persecution is coming to us
too.
May we trust in Jehovah
and overcome any fear that we have of our opposers.
May we be confident that any lions on our path are chained.
Look at the chains, not the lions.
And may we be ever guided by our wholesome fear of Jehovah God.
Are you determined to fear nothing except our wonderful God, Jehovah?
Then I ask you, what do we have to fear?
Thank you for answering this question about fear so eloquently.
Now we are looking forward to the discussion by brother Jackson
on the interesting theme.
Are you completely sober?
I guess so, looking at the time.
I know what you are thinking, really?
Seriously?
The answer is obvious, isn't it?
We have been in this assembly hall for hours
and there is no opportunity to drink.
So the answer to the question seems rather obvious, doesn't it?
But before you dismiss this question completely,
could there be some other meaning to this question?
A spiritual meaning?
The answer, of course, is yes.
Because when we look at the Greek text upon which the Christian Greek
scriptures was translated from, we notice that literally the term
to be sober occurs a number of times.
And yet the Christian Greek scriptures of the New World translation
does not actually use the word to be sober.
Now let's take an example.
Please turn with me, if you will, to 1st Peter, chapter 1 and verse 13.
Now if you have a device, you can quickly also look at the
Kingdom of Interlinear if you wish to verify this.
But 1st Peter, chapter 1, verse 13.
And just the beginning of the verse.
It says, so brace up your minds for activity.
Keep your senses completely.
The Greek expression here could be translated as being sober perfectly.
But notice we have the expression translated as keep your senses completely.
So that raises the interesting question.
Why didn't the New World Translation Bible Committee say to be sober,
or to be completely sober?
Well, the answer to that question goes back to your initial reaction when you
heard the title of this talk.
Let's be honest.
When you heard, are you completely sober?
What did you think of immediately?
Drinking alcohol or avoiding it?
But the majority of times that this expression occurs in the Christian Greek
scriptures, it does not specifically refer to avoiding alcohol,
or becoming intoxicated with alcohol.
Rather, it has a larger figurative meaning.
So for us to follow the admonition, to be sober,
we need to know really what the Bible means by that expression.
What is included in that?
So what we're going to briefly do is look at four different ways
that the New World Translation has covered this verse or, sorry, this expression.
And by looking at the different ways in English that this has been translated,
we'll see what really is involved with this expression to be sober.
So let's start.
If you turn with me, please, to 1 Timothy chapter 3.
And immediately we remember the 1 Timothy chapter 3 is talking about the qualifications
for overseers, and also it mentions what sisters should do.
Now in verse 2 and verse 11, we won't read it, but glancing at it,
in Greek, the word to be sober literally is there.
And you can see it in the Kingdom of Interlinear.
But how is it translated?
We don't see the word sober, do we?
The expression there is to be moderate in habits.
Now why did the brothers translate it this way?
Because although it could refer to being avoiding being intoxicated,
it has this wider meaning of having good sense when it comes to things like conduct and speech,
or the choice of entertainment or recreation.
It means not going to foolish extremes or being erratic in our thinking
or unbalanced in our opinions.
So all of that is involved in this figurative meaning of the expression
to be moderate in habits.
Let's take an example by looking at another verse in the Bible
as to what is involved in not being extreme.
Let's turn to 1 Corinthians this time.
1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 31.
Now this doesn't use the term in Greek to be sober,
but it gives us further information as to what's involved with being moderate in habits.
So verse 31 says,
those making use of the world as those not using it to the full.
Now what does that mean?
Well maybe we could use this illustration to highlight it.
Imagine a hungry person who wants to pick fruit from a tree.
Now a person who's not unbalanced doesn't go to extremes,
perhaps would be happy just to get enough fruit to satisfy his hunger.
Or maybe to get a few extra pieces of fruit so that he could take home.
But a person who was to use it to the full
is that type of person that after they've collected everything they can get
more than they could ever use.
They see the one piece of fruit right up at the top
and they have to have it,
even if it involves a certain risk.
So when the apostle Paul said under inspiration
that we shouldn't use the world to the full,
symbolically we could say it's just like this,
not trying to get everything out of this world.
Now what sort of symbolic fruit might we be tempted with?
Well there are so many opportunities today for education,
recreation, entertainment, travel, vacations, employment and business.
Are we truly sober when it comes to those things?
Or are we like the person who's trying to grab every opportunity
and use the world to the full?
Well let's look at a second example of this Greek word being used.
First Peter chapter four and verse seven.
First Peter four seven.
It says, but the end of all things is drawn close.
Therefore be sound in mind and be vigilant.
Now notice the footnote says, or alert or awake.
But if you look at the kingdom in Thelinia it says be you sober.
So in this case the brothers translated the literal term in Greek sober
to be vigilant or alert and awake.
With regard to what?
With regard to our prayers.
It's interesting that the apostle Peter was inspired to say these words.
No doubt he remembered the time when he wasn't vigilant with regard to prayers.
When Jesus said keep praying constantly in the Garden of Gesemini
and of course Peter would have remembered what resulted because of that lack
of being sober in a spiritual sense.
So what about us?
Are we vigilant with regard to prayers?
Do we pray to Jehovah constantly whenever we have an opportunity right through the day?
Or do we only just pray when we wake up in the morning, when we eat
and before we go to bed at night?
Well for us to be vigilant with regard to prayers,
if we constantly have Jehovah in our minds,
then we can truly say that we are in a symbolic sense sober.
Now a third example, first Corinthians chapter 15.
Of course all of us remember very clearly the words in verse 33 about bad associations.
But this verse is verse 34 in the same context.
And how does it start?
It says come to your senses in a righteous way.
Again if we look at the literal rendering of the Greek it says sober you up.
Now what is this talking about?
Well the study note of our Bible and of course you can only get this in the electronic form at the moment.
It says come to your senses.
Paul here uses a Greek word that literally means to sober up
because some of the Corinthian Christians gave ear to apostate teachings
such as the denial of the resurrection.
They were in a spiritual stupor of sorts, confused and disoriented as if drunk.
Paul thus urges them to wake up to shake off their confusion
by getting a clear understanding of the teaching of the resurrection.
They needed to do so before their stupor led them to spiritual sickness and even death.
So do we see why the brothers translated this way?
Come to your senses. It's not just looking talking about drinking wine or beer
but it's talking about avoiding bad associates and those that give wrong ideas.
So could it be that we may be affected by the opinions of some,
maybe even within the congregation who say is the end really so close?
Or is what the world offers really that bad?
Or if we were to be tempted to believe every account or report on the Internet
with regard to those taking the lead in the organization?
Do we just quickly believe those things?
Or were still do we search the Internet looking for juicy stories
about other Jehovah's Witnesses?
We need to remember Satan is a father of the lie.
He's an expert at lying and he makes sure there are plenty of lies first to come across.
But if we are sober spiritually, this means we won't get fooled or tricked by false stories.
Now the fourth and final example we want to share with you is in 1 Thessalonians.
1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 6.
And here again in the Greek text we see the word sober,
if it's literally translated into English.
Verse 6 says, so then let us not sleep on as the rest do,
but let us stay awake and notice this is the expression, keep our senses.
So what is the context of this verse?
It's talking about Jehovah's Day coming as a thief.
It's talking about those saying peace and security.
So in this sense to be sober means we know the time we're living in.
We're not only spiritually awake but we're alert.
I think of this illustration.
There could be a God and that God is totally awake.
But he's watching the tournament on the television, maybe it's the football.
Something he's excited with, he's not alert to the dangers that are lurking.
So in a similar way, we need to be totally awake spiritually and alert to what is happening,
to the dangers that present themselves, such as getting involved with the political issues that we see in the world today.
To do so would make us part of the world.
Yes, we have to focus on God's kingdom as the only true solution.
That's what it means to be sober.
So we've seen those four aspects of this literal word when it translated into English as being sober.
But why is that so important?
Brothers and sisters, as has been already presented on this program,
we know challenging times are in front of us.
Yes, we need to be completely sober when we face those challenges.
This year is a special year, it marks 100 years since the appointment of the faithful and discrete slave.
That slave, when we look back over the 100 years, has remained awake spiritually speaking and alert
and keeping on reminding us of the need to do that.
Now it's true, some might say, well, yes, but at times we look back over the 100 years,
there were times I got excited about a certain year of time and the end didn't come at that time.
But just imagine if you had a watchdog and that dog barks in the middle of the night
and you get up and there's nothing there, do you shoot the dog?
It only proves that the dog is doing what you want it to do.
So in a similar way, realize the faithful slave.
Yes, in the enthusiasm, sometimes we have said things that maybe disappointed others.
But remember, the role of the faithful and discrete slave is to feed us, to keep us awake spiritually and keep us alert.
And thinking about it, when that day comes, when Jesus brings destruction on this wicked system of things,
where do you want to be on a beach drinking a martini, climbing a symbolic tree to get the last bit of fruit from this world,
or do you want to be busy in Jehovah's service, whether it's building and preaching and all the things we need to do, we know the answer.
Yes, but to do that, we have to remain sober spiritually.
And one final point.
If we look in the inside volume under the heading sobreness, there's a very interesting point.
Because Peter and Paul use this expression in Greek.
And the inside volume makes this very interesting comment.
In keeping his senses, Timothy was to realize that Paul would not be on the scene much longer.
Then it says about Peter.
Peter likewise knew that he and his fellow apostles would not be on hand much longer.
Then he goes on to say, knowing the seriousness of the times, with growing persecution from the world,
they should be sound in mind, watchful, vigilant, and should not neglect serious prayer to obtain the strength that they would need for endurance.
Yes, the faithful slave has been serving us with spiritual food for 100 years.
But friends, remember, the faithful slave will not always be here.
Soon will come the time when the remaining ones of the anointed will be taken to have their reward.
Of course, Jehovah will continue to care for us.
He always has a provision in place to care for us.
But what is the important thing?
What is it that the faithful slave wants to convey to us?
Just the same as Paul and Peter wanted to convey to those to whom they wrote.
We want to convey to you the importance of each one of us, being moderate in habits, vigilant with regard to prayers,
keeping our senses not being distracted by false stories and being alert to the time in which we are living.
So we leave you with that question.
Are you sober?
Are you completely sober?
Well, we certainly appreciate this sobering talk.
We will now be interested to hear what Brother Kenneth Cook has to say on the topic, will you care for it?
We care for the things that are important to us, don't we?
And there are many of such things.
For example, we care for our families.
We care for our friends.
We care for our ministry.
And above all, we care for our worship of Jehovah.
And we do this faithfully to the very end.
When others need us, we're there for them, as we've seen today.
During times of natural disasters, civil unrest and severe opposition to our work, we are there for one another.
In addition to all of that, our love must also, though, be great enough to care for those whom we try to reach in our public ministry.
In this, Jesus set the example for us.
We can feel His caring attitude.
And what He said in Matthew, chapter 9, and verses 36 to 38.
So please follow along at Matthew, chapter 9, and verse 36.
It says on seeing the crowds, he felt pity for them, because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd.
Then he said to his disciples, yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few.
Therefore, beg the master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
Jesus felt pity for the people, didn't he?
What does pity mean in this case?
The pity mentioned here stems from heart-felt love.
He loved the people. We loved people.
It's a tender feeling toward persons in a state of need or suffering.
Like Jesus, our love for others must include genuine care for them, even pity for them, so that we're moved to help them.
See, hoping that they respond to God's word and will desire to do Jehovah's will.
And we must do this because caring for others is an important part of following the Christ, right?
In a few minutes, we will look at how we can remain focused on compassionately carrying out our ministry and helping people to dedicate their lives to God.
And this will include revealing what our year text is for 2020, so as Brother Lett said earlier, stay tuned.
Before we get to that, though, we'll draw out some Bible principles from long ago that will help us today in caring for the people that we must yet reach in this important ministry or work.
Since ancient times, Jehovah has taught his people how to care for others.
In fact, the Israelites were told to show consideration even for the animals under their care.
For instance, when they were about to leave Egypt, Jehovah gave them this command at Exodus chapter 12, verses 5 and 6.
Please follow along.
Now, here is the setting.
Jehovah gives instructions about selecting the Passover sacrifice.
Verse 3 tells us that the Israelites were to select the sheep on the 10th of the month, with this in mind, notice what verse 5 states,
Your sheep should be a sound one-year-old male.
You may choose from the young rams or from the goats.
You must care for it until the 14th day of this month, and the whole congregation of the assembly of Israel must slaughter it at twilight.
Why was it important for them to not only select the sheep but to care for it until the 14th?
To answer that question, let's draw out two principles that we will then apply to our ministry, and they do apply.
First, we know that the sacrificial sheep needed to remain unblemished to be acceptable to Jehovah.
Verse 5 said, Your sheep should be a sound one-year-old male.
If an Israelite selected a sound sheep but then neglected it and the sheep was injured in some way, that sheep would no longer be acceptable to Jehovah for sacrifice.
The principle, keep the sacrifice acceptable.
Don't neglect it just because the end is close, and we can apply that principle to our ministry.
Now, principle number two, we can also be certain that a measure of compassion was involved in what Jehovah told them there.
In this case, the sacrificial sheep was no less important just because its time, so to speak, was short.
As we'll see in this discussion, this too can apply to our ministry, and we're wise to remember these principles.
Fittingly, it is Jehovah who sets the example for us in showing compassion and caring for what is important to the very end.
Foremost in this is how Jehovah cared for Jesus right up to the end of his earthly ministry.
For instance, Jehovah showed his support for Jesus by answering Jesus prayers.
At one point, Jesus even said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
Also, Jehovah voiced his support for Jesus.
At his baptism, Jehovah, Jesus heard Jehovah speak from heaven stating,
this is my son, the beloved whom I have approved.
Imagine how that encouraged him.
And then later, as Jesus was an agony during the hours before his death, an angel of God comforted Jesus.
And no doubt that angel was a friend whom Jesus knew well.
Yes, from the beginning to the very end, Jehovah cared for Jesus the sacrificial Lamb of God.
We benefit when we apply such principles to what we have been given to do today.
For instance, the time is short, yes.
Yet our public ministry is no less important now just because the end is close.
In fact, it's even more important that we continue caring for this ministry as the end approaches.
We must care for this sacrifice of praise to our Heavenly Father right up to the end.
That is right up to the time when Jehovah makes it clear that this part of our service to him has come to an end.
Until that time, what should be the focus of our public ministry?
Jesus stated what it should be at Matthew 28 and verses 18 through 20.
So please go to those verses.
Now starting at Matthew 28 and in verse 18, Jesus said, there we go, Jesus approached and spoke to them saying,
all authority has been given me in heaven and on the earth.
Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all the things I have to commanded you.
And look, I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.
So now with these words of Jesus in mind, what should be the focus of our public ministry?
Well, the focus must be to make disciples of Christ among people of all the nations, teaching them and baptizing them as Jesus stated.
Notice that Jesus' statement was more than just a command.
Jesus started off saying, I command you go, right?
Rather, Jesus said, all authority has been given me.
Go therefore.
Jesus' true disciples would see beyond the command embedded in those words and go forth with conviction.
Why?
Because they would know that Jesus was empowered, authorized to oversee this great work that they were now commissioned to do.
He would be with them and he is with us today. We're absolutely confident of that fact.
In view of that, how can we help our Bible students so that even more of them become baptized disciples as Jesus there directed?
This is important to consider, because while many get baptized each year, our yearly baptism figures have remained at about the same level for some time.
Now, are these good figures? Yes, they are. Absolutely.
But what can we do to help even more people take this vital step before the end comes?
To answer that question, let's briefly consider four ways to reach the heart.
There's much that we can do, but we'll just consider four ways here.
We do it through what we emphasize about Jehovah, what we teach our students about prayer, how we help them get to meetings, and how we help them handle problems.
Let's consider that first way. We reach the heart through what we emphasize about Jehovah.
Our goal is to help our students see that Jehovah cares for them.
He cares about them. He loves them deeply.
As we use our publications, such as the Teach Us book with our students, we should prepare well and highlight the scriptural answers to questions such as, does God care about us?
How does God feel when people suffer? And is it possible to be Jehovah's friend?
Just the answers, draw out the meaning that brings us joy and identify the principles that improve our life and help the student to grow ever closer to Jehovah.
Now, the second way.
We reach the heart through what we teach our students about prayer.
We show him or her how to pray properly with meaning and from the heart as we pray with them at each study session.
Explain that in our private prayers, we can really open up to Jehovah and express feelings that we might not share with other humans.
We can also ask for God's help to love only what He loves.
Why can we do this with confidence? Because Jehovah cares for us and we should make that very clear as we teach our Bible students.
Next, the third way.
We reach the heart through how we help our students get to meetings.
Invite your Bible student to attend meetings as soon as possible.
What a student sees in our meetings may touch his heart and help him to progress.
Very early on, show the video what happens at a kingdom hall.
Then, warmly invite him to attend with you, appeal to him, also offer transportation if it is needed.
I really appreciated getting a ride to the first meeting that I attended and I still remember it.
Finally, the fourth way.
We reach the heart through how we help our students handle problems, including problems that may develop if someone offends him or her.
This is all part of reaching the heart and preparing and helping them.
Our Bible students need to experience Jehovah's love as they benefit from applying Bible principles.
See, this helps them to know Jehovah better.
To help them show your students how to use tools such as the JW Library app, the Research Guide for Jehovah's Witnesses and JW.org.
When our students are trained to search for answers before baptism, they will be better prepared to handle problems and get along with others.
When we do these things for our Bible students, we show that we are really caring for what Jehovah has entrusted to us.
Both Jehovah and his son desire that we help as many people to the point of dedication and baptism while there is still time.
To succeed, don't spend time conducting an unproductive study.
Rather, focus on those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life and care for them with Jehovah's blessing on your efforts.
So then, with all of this in mind, what is our year text for 2020?
It is taken from Matthew 28, 19, go therefore, and make disciples aptizing them.
Now, for those of you who listened to Alexa earlier in the program or read your daily text for today, you know that this is also the scripture text for today.
October 5, 2019. That's just a coincidence. Don't expect it next year.
Now, with that text in mind, keep putting your heart into your ministry and into helping people and be certain to take care of this ministry.
With those principles, we considered to the very end.
Thank you very much, Brother Cook, for your presentation.
Looking back on the program that we were able to enjoy, we certainly felt encouraged by being reminded that we have no human leader but that it is Jesus who is our leader.
Remember what it says in Matthew 23, 10.
Neither be called leaders, for your leader is one, the Christ.
We enjoyed also listening to Brother Stephen Let, who emphasized that our relief ministry is overseen and directed by Jehovah.
I'm sure you also enjoyed the four videos.
The first one was entitled The Good Hand of our God is upon us. Let us get up and build.
The next video provided a historical look at property acquisitions followed by another video related to the new construction project that is being planned.
The fourth video was about the new application for processing applications, followed by a presentation on a new way to access JW.org audio files.
After that, we enjoyed the scriptural discussion and attack coming from the north presented by Brother David's plane from the governing body.
Brother Samuel Hurd next encouraged us to study the Bible with a study Bible and how we appreciate the study Bible.
After singing a song together and listening to greetings from brothers in other places and countries, Brother Anthony Morris reminded us that we have worked it out.
As indicated in the news media, there are increasing problems in the world. In certain areas, we can also see increasing hostility against God's people.
Brother Mark Sanderson of the governing body showed that we do not have to be fearful because the Almighty is on our side.
Next we heard the talk by Brother Jeffrey Jackson. Are you completely sober? We are if we keep our senses.
And finally, Brother Kenneth Cook from the governing body raised the question, will you care for it?
Brother Cook reviewed how Jehovah cared for Jesus, the sacrificial Lamb of God, until the very end of his life on earth.
Likewise, in harmony with the 2020 year text that's taken from Matthew 28.19, he highlighted how we must care for our ministry and our sacrifice of praise until the very end.
This includes our efforts to help those who are rightly disposed to dedicate their life to Jehovah and to get baptized.
Well, we have had an encouraging time together, haven't we? Well, we enjoyed the various videos also, the video presentations, and we all benefited from the scriptural talks delivered by members of the governing body.
And then we also appreciate the discussion on the year text for the coming year. Go there and make disciples, baptizing them.